[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So, I think
there's a better way to think about it.
And that is treating
the function as a module,
because we've already seen a thing where
we can have a self executing function and
it works exactly like the old code
except it's hiding that stuff.
So, it's creating a scope where
the stuff does not leak out.
It only reveals what it wants to reveal,
and
that turns out to be
a really useful pattern.
And I wanna build functions or objects out
of this because I think it's better than
what the language want its
pseudo classical style.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
if I wanna make a singleton,
language like Java that's
a surprising amount of work.
Cuz you have to build a class even though
you're only gonna have one instance of it.
So it's a class of one, doesn't make
sense, but that's how you do it.
But in JavaScript it's much easier.
So here, I want to make an object that has
two methods, first method, second method.
I want them both to have shared
access to some private state or
some private functions, and I can do that.
So I will immediately invoke
the outer function, so
what I assign to singleton is this object.
And these objects, because of closure,
will always have access to this stuff.
I don't have to put this in the global
space for them to share it, this is good,
this is a really good pattern.
And there are lots of
variations on this pattern.
For example, instead of returning
a value that gets assigned,
I could be augmenting
an existing global object.
Maybe I've got something called
Global which is the container
of all the global state for
my application, I can append to it here.
>> Douglas Crockford: So this module
is pattern is trivially converted into
a powerful constructor pattern,
so here's the recipe.
Step one, we make an object using
any of the means available to us for
making objects including,
objects literal or
a new or object.create or
calling some other constructor.
Step two we'll define some variables or
functions
these will become the private members
of the object that we're constructing.
Step three, we augment the object
with privileged methods.
A privileged method is
a method which is public, but
which closes over the private state.
So it gives it privileged
access to the secrets.
In step 4, we return the object.
So it's a little abstract, okay, so
let me turn this into a template,
to make it a little easier to follow.
So step one, I'm gonna make a new object.
I've got myPowerConstructor which I
spelled with a lowercase initial letter,
because it doesn't need the new prefix.
If you call this with the new prefix,
all you're gonna do is waste of time,
it's not gonna break.
>> Douglas Crockford: And
I'm gonna create a variable called that,
which is the object that I'm constructing.
I would rather call it this, but this is
a reserved word, I can't assign to it, so
I'm gonna call it that.
And in this case, I'm gonna ask some other
constructor to make the object for me.
That's gonna give me another
dimension of inheritance,
cuz whatever it does,
I get the benefit from.
And Step Two I'm gonna create my secret
variables, my secret functions and
I can initialize them now or later.
Step Three, I'll create my privileged
methods, I will add them to that,
and the privileged methods will
have access to the secret.
Will have access to any parameters that
were passed into the constructor, and
they can also have access to that.
And I return that and that's it, this is
a really powerful way of creating objects.
One of the benefits of this is that
objects can have private state,
which is something that
the other forms do not give us.
>> Douglas Crockford: So,
let's look again at the Gizmo object.
>> Douglas Crockford: There's just so
little to like about this.
One of them is that even though
Gizmo inherits from Hoozit,
the constructors still
have to do the same stuff.
So the fact that Hoozit's
inheriting from Gizmo,
he still has to do all the work
of constructing it anyway.
He has to still do the id
initialization thing.
So, let's do this using the functional
pattern that I just showed you.
>> Douglas Crockford: So now, Gizmo
is just returning a simple object and
Hoozit gets its that from calling Gizmo,
and
add it's privileged method to it and
returns it and it's done.
I think this is so much nicer,
I mean this is a lot less code than even
the wrapper thing that we did earlier.
And so much cleaner and
nice I really like this, but
it also allows us to do some stuff
that we cannot do with the other one.
For example,
there's no privacy on the ID in these.
Suppose I want ID not to be a public
property of the object but to be a private
property of the object that is only
access indirectly through its methods.
Okay, maybe I have security or other
considerations that want me to do that.
Trivial to do in this model, so, in fact,
adding that privacy actually
makes the code smaller.
I simply don't add ID to the object
literal, cuz it's gonna be private now,
and instead of saying this.id here,
just saying ID there.
So, that function,
the two string function will close over
the ID that was passed into Gizmo.
And we have a similar benefit
happening in the Hoozit.
Its test function gets closed over the
variable that got passed into Hoozit, so
code is actually smaller.
We have other things we could do,
if we want to simulate package scope
which I think is one of the big bad
ideas in programming languages, but
we're kinda stuck with it.
And if you want to simulate it,
you can have this secret object,
which is another parameter,
that contains the shared state.
That is essentially the packaged scope,
that these guys can pass
through each other.
So that's an option that we have now,
we can have super methods now.
It turns out, we don't need super methods,
super methods are one of the powerful
ideas in the classical model.
And when I started in JavaScript,
one of the first things I did
was figure out a way to write
super methods and never used it.
You just think about things so differently
that the super model just doesn't come up.
We have so
many other ways of composing functions,
that particular one is like
the least interesting one possible.
And so,
there's no prohibition from using supers,
it just outgrows them really quickly.
But if you feel a need for them,
this pattern gives us a way to do them.
>> Douglas Crockford: So let's look at
a couple of tricks we can do with higher
order functions.
Memoizers are like cashes but
the mathematical so they're better,
which allow you to remember previous
values that a function has computed.
So if you're ever asked to
compute the same value again,
you can simply look it up.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
let's look at what our memoizer does.
It first creates a function
called recur and
then it returns that function result,
so that's pretty easy.
So let's say we want to compute factorial,
we'll pass to memoizer an array of
the first two values of factorials.
So factorial of 0 is 1,
factorial of 1 is 1, and then we'll pass
it in a formula which it can use for
computing all of the other values.
And it will take a recurrence function
as well as the value that it needs to
compute, the recurrence function allows it
to call itself, so it can do recursion.
So, to find any factorial of n,
you return n times the factorial of n- 1.
So looking at what happens
when we call recurring there,
we go up to that function, we look to
see if the result we're looking for
is already in the memo array.
If it is, we simply return it and
we're done.
But if not, then we'll call a formula and
take its value and
store it in the memo array for
next time, and return that as well.
So, that really pays off
on things like Fibonacci,
a recursive definition of Fibonacci
is explosively expensive.
As n starts to get bigger,
it gets so slow, because you're
constantly recursing on two
legs which multiply in four and
gets really expensive, but
with memorizer it is linear.
So even though this appears to be
more code maybe doing more work,
it is avoiding massive amounts of work.
So this is a huge optimisation over a
naive recursive implementation factorial.
And it all happens by using
functions as arguments.
>> Douglas Crockford: One
warning about functions,
do not ever declare function in a loop.
This is bad for two reasons,
the first one, is not that important but.
You pay a cost in creating a function
each time you encounter in a loop, so,
that's time and memory.
Much more important is that the function
closes not over the current state
of the loop, but over the whole function,
because that's how JavaScript works.
Which can cause things to go wrong.
For example, here we have a loop
that's going over an array of DIVs and
it's actually adding an on click
handler to each of those elements.
With the idea that, when we click on it,
it should alert the number of the element.
And so if we pass an array of 4 DIVs,
we want to click 0,
1, 2, 3, but
what you'll actually get is 4444.
And the reason is, that function is
closing over the current value of i,
not the value of i at the time
the function was created.
So we're seeing i at the end of the loop,
at the end of the loop it's four.
So the way you get around that is,
you move the creation of that
function outside of the loop.
And it turns out the solution to all most
all of life's problems is write another
function.
So in this case,
we'll write a make handler function
which will return that event handler.
And that moves that stuff out, provides
a mechanism which will create the closure,
which will preserve the value of
that variable that we want and
everything works.
>> Douglas Crockford: I'm not gonna
discuss this except to mention this is one
of the most strange and
amazing attributes of computer science,
it's the y combinator.
It is a lambda expression which makes it
possible to have a function recursively
call itself without using recursion,
and without using variables.
Absolutely no practical
benefit to this at all.
Except it's something that's weird and
abstract, and
is trivially expressed in JavaScript.
The language is so
expressive that it can talk about lambdas
to such an extent you can actually
do this stuff in JavaScript.
JavaScript is an AI language,
it's amazing.
>> Douglas Crockford: And so JavaScript
has good parts we all know, so if you
wanna know more about this stuff, I highly
recommend a book called the Little Lisper,
this is review of that book.
It's this wonderful programmed learning
text which is all about recursive
functions, and it's great.
If you want to understand
more about recursion
you definitely need to read this book.
It's now in a later edition
called The Little Schemer,
I think it's on its fourth edition now.
It's on Amazon and everywhere,
I highly recommend it.
So let's take a break, and
get out some paper and pencils,
and we're gonna do some work next, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Is this the [INAUDIBLE]
example, where you're trying to loop
assigning the variable hwre you pointed
out, where all the [INAUDIBLE].
If you put in fact var equals
inside there simingly assigning
to a global temp,
because a global temp is actually move
around of the loop to it's
does that make sense?
There's no scooping it wide, then it's
all gonna be seen local valiable.
>> Douglas Crockford: It depends, yeah
t depends on which function you saying.
So what we did was essentially
move that variable into
where it's not gonna get
changed on each iterations.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so where you've
got div_id =, that was var div_id =.
That was up above [INAUDIBLE] higher
up in the for loop, way up, yeah.
If you have var d id = right there.
>> Douglas Crockford: No, that doesn't
help, cuz it's still in the same scope.
>> Speaker 2: Cuz it's going
to move at the same scope, and
not within the for loop.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right,
yeah, function's this-
>> Speaker 2: That's sorta subtle.
>> Douglas Crockford: It is subtle, and so
I tried to find the simplest possible rule
to give people to know,
watch out for that.
So the simplest rule I could think of
was don't make functions in a loop.
>> Douglas Crockford: Move it outside.